[Term Entry] C Pointers: Double Pointer (#6032)
Codecademy/docs: content/c/concepts/pointers/terms/double-pointer/double-pointer.md

---
Title: 'Double Pointer'

> Description: 'A double pointer is a pointer that stores the address of another pointer.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'A double pointer in C is a pointer that holds the address of another pointer.'
```

Reviewer: reworded this to avoid plagiarism

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Pointers'
  - 'Memory'
  - 'Variables'
  - 'Arrays'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **double pointer** is a [pointer](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/concepts/pointers/terms/pointer/pointer) that stores the memory address of another pointer. It allows indirect access to the value of a variable.

## Syntax

> A double pointer is declared using two asterisks (`**`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A double pointer is declared using two asterisks (`**`) before the pointer variable name:
```

> ```psedudo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

type **name
```

> - `type`: data type of variable being pointed to.
> - `name`: the identifier for the double pointer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type`: The type of data the double pointer will point to (e.g., `int`, `char`, etc.).
- `name`: The identifier for the double pointer.
```

## Example

> The following examples demonstrates how a double pointer is declared and used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples demonstrates how a double pointer is declared and used:
```

```c

> int value = 35;
> int *pointer = &value; // Pointer to an integer
> int **doublePointer = &pointer; // Double pointer to an integer pointer
> 
> // Printing the value and addresses
> printf("Value of value: %d\n", value); // Direct value
> printf("Value of *pointer: %d\n", *pointer); // Value via pointer
> printf("Value of **doublePointer: %d\n", **doublePointer); // Value via double pointer
> 
> printf("Address of value: %p\n", (void*)&value); // Address of value
> printf("Address of pointer: %p\n", (void*)&pointer); // Address of pointer
> printf("Address of doublePointer: %p\n", (void*)&doublePointer); // Address of double pointer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  int value = 35;
  int *pointer = &value; // Pointer to an integer (stores the address of 'value')
  int **doublePointer = &pointer; // Double pointer to an integer pointer (stores the address of 'pointer')

  // Printing the value and addresses
  printf("Value of value: %d\n", value); // Direct access to value
  printf("Value of *pointer: %d\n", *pointer); // Dereferencing pointer to access value
  printf("Value of **doublePointer: %d\n", **doublePointer); // Dereferencing double pointer twice to access value

  // Printing addresses
  printf("Address of value: %p\n", (void*)&value); // Address of the variable 'value'
  printf("Address of pointer: %p\n", (void*)&pointer); // Address of the pointer 'pointer'
  printf("Address of doublePointer: %p\n", (void*)&doublePointer); // Address of the double pointer 'doublePointer'

  return 0;
}

```
